#Mathew C. Martin: Portfolio of work

##Ongoing quest for knowledge and understanding through the application of empirical methodology and critical thinking skills.

##"The quill of the goose will steal the minds of men" ~ The Lady of the Lawyers - Loc Tay, Inverness, Scotland circa 16th century

###We are empowered in this age to both capture the spoken word and the stories of our shared humanity, while at the very same time, at risk of losing this robust and intrinsic human gift. Our love and acceptance of technology is seemingly at an all time high with advances making real previously unimagined possibilities, yet, paradoxically we look around the coffee shop or on the bus and people have at the very same time given these tools, much like the writing "quill" of old, power in supplanting our oral traditions. We have found easy sanctuary from human connections reliant on tools to convey the knowledge and information we all hold. Where once the collective mind held the secrets passed around the hearth or perhaps at most, etched in stone, we now rely almost entirely on other computational means to pass on the knowledge for which humanity once was more mindful and deliberate than a password and pin for which we now entrust nearly all we own.

###Yet, we are wise to not blame the tool for our own lack of passion and delight. How we manage our time here is what most defines us as the unique individuals we claim to be. Only when we gain the knowledge to bend space and step back, then perhaps we can regain what we've lost, until then forward through the one constant we can depend. Which leads me to my point, one defined by numbers in space, not time. Geometry lies at the heart of geography, as its mathematic principles are much the same. My focus of study and much of my life experience and has been in both cartography and computer science. Communicating information and witnessing the evolution from analog to digital has been my life for so long it is far to boring to tell. At least unless you have a hearth... or perhaps a quill.

###Finding a model to think about representing our world is an age old problem. Often the first step would be agreeing on some standard framework. For instance, a currency standard or even better, the language with which we effectively communicate. Is our model exclusive of other languages or do we accept the reality that not everyone communicates in our language? Already we see our model getting more and more complex. Who keeps the records anyway? Do you keep the record for me or should I be cautious and retain my own. As humans we process this complexity rather easily and generally with some grace and dignity. The framework and tools allowing us to seamlessly glide thru transparent fields of electromagnetism exchanging data both ways. Discarding almost all the energy required for the information exchange which perhaps back in the day might have burned up an entire forest... just to say "Good day!"

###In my lifetime I've witnessed an evolution going the other way. For society the advent of imagery and sound pumped into our homes has been quite profound. The complete immersion of our senses lacking only smell and taste at this date. Historically, in my study of the Vietnam War, it was quite clear to me that news reels showing the true face of war and the to date unseen atrociousness forcing societal change to what previously was perceived as justifiable. Yet, today so much information surrounds us that a single newsworthy broadcast by a reputable professional journalist would likely garner a tiny fraction of what was once impactful. Not only does a single family not sit down for the same broadcast but it is unlikely that they consume media in the same way.
 
